---
layout: post
title: Installing Jekyll on Mac OS X Mountain Lion
---

Installing Jekyll on Mountain Lion can be a bit of struggle. Especially if you don't want to install the truckload of unusable stuff that is Xcode. You probably already know what Jekyll is since you are trying to install it, but in the off chance that you don't, here is a "link to the Jekyll website":http://jekyllrb.com/. What I want to do here is to give a quick tutorial on how to get the software installed.

h3. Step 1 - Install command line tools for Xcode

Go to the "Apple developer site":https://developer.apple.com/downloads/index.action?=command%20line%20tools to download the command line tools for Xcode. In order to do this you will need an Apple developer account, but it is free and easy to create. Just follow the link.

Run @xcode-select -switch /usr/bin@ to set the path to Xcode CLT correctly.

h3. Step 2 - Install Ruby Gems

Go do "this site":http://rubygems.org/pages/download and download Ruby Gems.

h3. Step 3 - Replace broken xcrun

For some reason, the xcrun utility does not work. Before changing it, I recommend that you back it up. You can use @cp /usr/bin/xcrun /usr/bin/xcrun-backup@ to do this. Next, open @/usr/bin/xcrun@ in your favorite editor and insert the following

{% highlight bash %}
#!/bin/bash
$@
{% endhighlight %}

More information can be seen in "this question":http://stackoverflow.com/questions/13041525/osx-10-8-xcrun-no-such-file-or-directory on Stack Overflow.

h3. Step 4 - Install the Jekyll gem

@sudo gem install jekyll@

That is all. You should now have a working installation of Jekyll.